>> Researchers discover the
world's largest geoglyphs
in an Indian desert.
Will the findings
reveal who made
these giant, enigmatic
designs and why?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Geoglyphs are sprawling
designs made by digging
into the earth or piling up
stones to form what mostly
appear as geometric lines
and more rarely as humans
and animals.
Usually only fully
visible from above,
they can be found
all over the world.
Some dating back to prehistoric
times, others quite recent.
The most famous to date are
the Nazca Lines in Peru.
While there are various
theories around their builders
and function, none
have been proven,
and continue to
be widely debated.
Carlo Oetheimer is an
independent researcher
of geomorphology, the
study of Earth's landforms.
While conducting a Google Earth
survey of India, he and his son
and colleague, Yohann Oetheimer
made a fascinating discovery.
>> I was traveling
over the desert,
and suddenly I found
lines in the desert,
similar to the Nazca Lines.
I was amazed and I
said, oh, what's that?
And I find one place,
and two places,
and eight places almost.
And that was the way I found
the Thar Desert-- the Boha
geoglyphs.
>> So on the Google
Earth's images,
we could see a
concentric spiral--
concentric lines.
We didn't really know
at that point what
they were, but we had to go
on the site, on the field,
to see exactly--
to understand them better.
>> When the researchers
visited the desert site
in India's Rajasthan region,
what they found astounded them.
>> We brought a drone with us
to be able to take the aerial
photos of the geoglyphs.
The drone images,
we could finally
see the true form of the
line, which is a spiral.
>> All those cliffs
are really, really big.
That are the biggest geoglyphs
discovered so far on Earth.
It's a big spiral, which is
11 kilometers continuous line.
Other one, which is
connected to the spiral,
is a serpent-shape line
with many patterns.
We have managed to reproduce
48 kilometers of lines.
Around the lines, we have
archeological features which
are called memorial stone.
The big ones are in
memory of deceased person.
For us, maybe, these landmarks,
the mark is a symbol of death.
We have to understand
if there are
connections between these Hindu
memorial stones and the lines.
>> Given the difficulty of
precise archeological dating
in a desert environment, the
Oetheimers are very cautious
about providing any definitive
interpretations of the origins
and meaning of the geoglyphs.
They are, however,
working on some ideas.
>> Concerning the antiquity
of the lines, the main point,
of course, is not the fact that
they are at least 150 years
old.
We don't know exactly,
but I am almost
sure that they are not old.
That's for sure.
What is interesting here
is more the symbols.
But as the line ends
with a little spiral,
or begins with a
little spiral, we
were wondering if
this was a kind
of global symbol of the life
of a human in the Thar Desert.
So it's obviously made
to see from above.
So who is above?
This is a symbol of the
heaven and the afterlife
and the gods, whose
north-south lines,
we were wondering if they
could symbolize something
with the cosmos.
And suddenly, we
got the idea that we
could try to superimpose
the Ursa Minoris, so
the constellation of Ursa
Minoris on this spiral.
This gives an
interpretation for how
this is a message to the
cosmos, to the people
who are in this other world.
>> The team plans to continue
trying to glean further
information about these
fascinating designs.
However, it is likely, they
say, that the true origins
will remain a mystery.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.